

     **** OBJECTS  ****

  JavaScript is an Object Oriented Programming (OOP) language. A programming 
language can be called object-oriented if it provides four basic capabilities to 
developers:
 Encapsulation: the capability to store related information, whether data 
or methods, together in an object.
 Aggregation: the capability to store one object inside another object.
 Inheritance: the capability of a class to rely upon another class (or 
number of classes) for some of its properties and methods.
 Polymorphism: the capability to write one function or method that works 
in a variety of different ways.
Objects are composed of attributes. If an attribute contains a function, it is 
considered to be a method of the object, otherwise the attribute is considered a 
property.
Object Properties
Object properties can be any of the three primitive data types, or any of the 
abstract data types, such as another object. Object properties are usually 
variables that are used internally in the object's methods, but can also be 
globally visible variables that are used throughout the page.
The syntax for adding a property to an object is:
objectName.objectProperty = propertyValue;
For example: The following code gets the document title using the "title"
property of the document object.
var str = document.title;
Object Methods
Methods are the functions that let the object do something or let something be 
done to it. There is a small difference between a function and a method – at a 
function is a standalone unit of statements and a method is attached to an 
object and can be referenced by the this keyword.


Methods are useful for everything from displaying the contents of the object to 
the screen to performing complex mathematical operations on a group of local 
properties and parameters.
For example: Following is a simple example to show how to use the 
write() method of document object to write any content on the document.
document.write ("This is test");
User-Defined Objects
All user-defined objects and built-in objects are descendants of an object called 
Object.
The new Operator
The new operator is used to create an instance of an object. To create an 
object, the new operator is followed by the constructor method.
In the following example, the constructor methods are Object(), Array(), and 
Date(). These constructors are built-in JavaScript functions.
var employee = new Object();
var books = new Array("C++", "Perl", "Java");
var day = new Date("August 15, 1947");
TheObject()Constructor
A constructor is a function that creates and initializes an object. JavaScript 
provides a special constructor function called Object() to build the object. The 
return value of the Object() constructor is assigned to a variable.
The variable contains a reference to the new object. The properties assigned to 
the object are not variables and are not defined with the var keyword.
